- [Instructor] Let's explore the map implementations,
so you'll know which one to choose for your situation.
In this type hierarchy, we'll find
the three most commonly used map implementations.
The TreeMap is a map implementation that stores
its entries in sorted order within a tree structure.
It implements the NavigableMap interface,
which extends from SortedMap.
Entries in the map are sorted
in ascending order based upon their key.
This allows for rapid retrieval using methods and behaviors
that are similar to what we saw in the tree set.
We won't spend much time discussing the TreeMap
because most of your code will deal
with the HashMap implementation.
A HashMap does not provide any guarantees
about the order of its objects,
but it has a sub-class LinkedHash set
that can access elements in both insertion order
or the order of their last access.
Let's talk a little bit more about how hashing works
because it's a key concept for storing objects in a map.
Hashing is a technique that turns an object
into a numeric value known as its hash value.
To hash an object we run it through a hashing function.
So, we might take a string like LinkedIn
and run it through a hash function to get its hash value.
In Java, the hashCode method is used
to produce an object's hash value.
Here, I've included the hashCode logic
that is used to produce the hash value for a UTF string.
Now, it's not important to understand
the logic other than realizing it's computing
a hash value based on the string's value.
Most basic types in Java like the string
or the wrapper classes for primitives
implement the hashCode method.
However, if you're using your own custom object type,
you'll need to provide an implementation of this method.
When we explored equality, you saw how to generate
a hashCode and equals method using the eclipse IDE.
For most situations, that implementation will be sufficient.
If you need to provide your own implementation
for hashCode, a few rules apply.
First, the hashCode method must consistently produce
the same integer, if it is invoked multiple times.
The hash value can change, if values used
in the object's equals method change.
But, in general, you want it to be pretty stable.
The second rule states that if two objects are equal,
they must produce the same hash value.
And the final rule states that two objects
that are not equal are permitted
to have the same hash value, this is important.
So, you'll notice the two strings in our examples produce
the same hash value, this is known as a collision.
It may seem alarming, however,
there are strategies for handling a collision.
If you violate these rules, when implementing hashCode
and equals the HashMap may have
some unexpected behaviors when handling your objects.
You'll understand why when we dive deeper
into the inner workings of a HashMap in our next lesson.